---
week: 3
title: Collatz Success
---
tl;dr: The Collatz project went well! Workflow changes were annoying, but more manageable
in the future. Pair programming has started, woo! Also included:
[ripgrep](http://blog.burntsushi.net/ripgrep/) and its related vim plugin, plus other vim
plugins.

{% include h3.html title=page.part1 %}
I finished the Collatz project! I only ran into one problem: on the next-to-last or last
day, Professor Downing changed the workflow page. The change was for the better, in my
opinion, but meant I technically had no longer followed it. I didn't bother going back and
redoing my work or anything, just copied over the issues I needed for the final submission
and called it a day. In my opinion, he really should have waited on that until after the
due time, or at least had both up until Collatz was turned in---I know at least one
student said they ended up submitting late to accomadate the new workflow. This shouldn't
be a problem in the future, though, and Professor Downing clarified that the workflow does
not need to be exactly followed for full marks as long as the assets necessary in the
rubric are supplied; this was, in my opinion, insufficiently clear at the start.

{% include h3.html title=page.part2 %}
Nothing is in my way! I had some trepidation about sorting out a partner for the Netflix
partner, but (as you'll see in the next post...) that was pretty easily resolved.

{% include h3.html title=page.part3 %}
Sort out a partner for the Netflix project and get it started. I have a side project with
a worldwide team; I need to communicate with them about my schedule this semester and sort
out online-meeting times, but that's pretty minor.

Outside of programming, I'm setting up times each week I can go to the gym and to rock
climbing with friends, and making that a regular thing. I'm also starting up an online DnD
campaign for some of my friends in other cities: I have a full plate!

{% include h3.html title=page.part4 %}
Besides the issues with the workflow mentioned in the first section, I'm quite bothered by
Quiz #6. Professor Downing published Quiz 6 on Piazza at 5:56PM on February 1; it was
available for completion between 6:00PM and 11:59PM. It wasn't an issue for me, but I find
myself annoyed by the expectation that a) no one works the evening shift and b) everyone
checks Piazza at least once every six hours every day or c) has their phone on them during
that time period and has email notifications turned on for the email with which they
signed up for Piazza. I happened to fall into group (c), but I'm sure not everyone does,
and it really seems like Professor Downing expects his students to place his class at
maximal personal importance. Again, I have enough free time to work with this, but for
prospective students interested in the class it could definitely turn them off of it.

{% include h3.html title=page.part5 %}
This week I'd like to recommend the excellent
[ripgrep](http://blog.burntsushi.net/ripgrep/) command-line search tool. It is similar to
[ag](https://github.com/ggreer/the_silver_searcher) (The Silver Searcher) or
[ack](http://beyondgrep.com/) but really surpases all similar tools in usefulness and
speed. I'll let you read the author's pitch and technical details on the linked site
above, but take my word for it being a fantastic tool in my command-line arsenal.

It's made even better with the use of [fzf](https://github.com/junegunn/fzf), a general
fuzzy-finding tool wrapper with a vim plugin. It provides some key bindings for path
completion in bash, and you can set it to use any search tool you like, so I use the
blazing-fast ripgrep. *Even better*, it has a great vim plugin that lets me fuzzy-find
files in my path right from vim and open them in windows, splits, etc. Just add it as a
plugin (the below assumes you use [vim-plug](https://github.com/junegunn/vim-plug), which
I think you should, but if you use something else, you probably already know what to do):

```vim
call plug#begin()
...
Plug 'junegunn/fzf'
...
call plug#end()
```

and give it some keybindings:

```vim
nnoremap <leader>f :FZF<CR>
```

There's also commands to open in splits or tabs, but I prefer to set up my windows first,
then in the correct window, do a `<leader>f` to open my file.

While I have you here thinking about vim plugins, let me also recommend
[gitgutter](https://github.com/airblade/vim-gitgutter), which uses the gutter (to the left
of the line numbers) to display symbols for unstaged adds, removes, and changes in
git-tracked files. It also provides commands to stage or unstage particular hunks in the
file, in case you've accidentally made a bunch of changes at once and want to commit them
as single logical chunks. As an example, consider you retabulating the file (with
`gg=G''`) and fixing a bug---you probably want that to be two commits, so code reviewers
looking at the "fix bug" commit don't get confused by all the whitespace changes, and code
reviewers looking at the "fix tabulation" commit don't miss the bug fix. You can do this
with `git add --patch`, but it's far easier to do it from inside the file with
gitgutter.

Happy coding!
