---
week: 1
title: Getting Started
---
tl;dr: First impressions: this course seems pretty good! Everything’s go well so far, but
it’s also too early to tell if that will continue to be the case. Looking forward to
getting into some meaty projects. I expect the experience gained in this course to prove
very useful in the real world!

{% include h3.html title=page.part1 %}
In terms of the Collatz project, I passed all the HackerRank tests, so I've got a working
implementation. I'm partway through the workflow, and I know there's more optimizations I
can add, so my next steps will be all optimizations and thinking of good acceptance tests.

Outside of programming, I missed Friday's class to go to San Antonio for PAX South, which
was an absolute blast. Since this project is so simple in terms of code and I'm already
mostly familiar with the tools we're using for it, I don't think it'll be too much of a
setback, and I've contacted one of my classmates to get the gist of what I missed.

{% include h3.html title=page.part2 %}
I got a little too excited about solving the HackerRank problem and accidentally skipped a
couple of workflow steps, so I'm going back and redoing it *properly*. Other than that, no
issues in terms of coding or time remaining - I'm well on track. Docker hasn't caused me
any problems, as I was concerned it might have.

{% include h3.html title=page.part3 %}
The first half of next week is for finishing the first project, which I expect to have
wrapped up on Tuesday, giving me a couple of days to make sure any issues I run into can
get resolved. After that, who knows! We might get into pair programming (or at least have
a rough introduction to it as a concept), which I'm looking forward to for the social
aspect if nothing else.

{% include h3.html title=page.part4 %}
I mentioned [last week](http://rperce.net/blog/cs373/week-1) that Professor Downing has a
novel conversational approach to class discussion, and that it "seems to keep discussion
moving faster than addressing the whole class". This week, I found out its downsides: if
the student selected doesn't know what's going on, it's painful for everyone involved.
Hopefully experiencing this will push everyone to be better prepared as class goes on; I
know I've been reading the papers and textbook chapters more carefully this week just in
case I get selected.

{% include h3.html title=page.part5 %}
This week I'd like to recommend [Shenzhen I/O](http://www.zachtronics.com/shenzhen-io/), a
game released last November by [http://www.zachtronics.com/](Zachtronics) of
[Infinifactory](http://www.zachtronics.com/infinifactory/) fame. You play a software
developer dissatisfied with his career who moves to Shenzhen to take a job at Shenzhen
Longteng Electronics Co., Ltd., a fictional microcontroller company. You solve assigned
tasks by writing microcontroller code in a very limited assembly language. It provides
test cases for you to match, and each solution is scored on power usage, lines of code,
and part cost.

I picked it up in the Steam Winter Sale (it runs around $15 now) and besides being quite a
bit of fun, I've found it useful from a development perspective. The parts you can use
only can hold so many instructions, forcing you to consider every inclusion. A puzzle or
task is solved by making your output match a verification test: it is all TDD, but the
tests have been written for you. Much like HackerRank, there's one test case than you can
directly inspect, and then each puzzle has many subsequent test cases that must be passed
to submit. Usefully, if you fail on a later test case, you *can* set a breakpoint and
inspect that case as well to see what you've done wrong. The three scores (cost, LOC, and
power usage) are often mutually exclusive: sometimes you can use hardware logic gates to
save on LOC, but increase cost. Power usage can be decreased at the expense of extra logic
to check for edge cases and decrease code executed, raising LOC, and so on. This
encourages looking at a problem from multiple angles, a skill useful for debugging one's
own code.

Also, it's got leaderboards synced through Steam, so you can compete with your friends.
Often, simply the knowledge that a better solution is possible is the first clue you need
to finding that solution. You're welcome to [shoot me an
email](mailto:week-two-responses@rperce.net) for my Steam ID if you want to compete.






