---
week: 4
title: "Episode IV: A New Project"
---
tl;dr: We've properly started the Netflix project. Tip: competitive programming!

{% include h3.html title=page.part1 %}
Plenty of work on the Netflix project. Got set up without issue, and pair programming is
going well. I've done it before and found it entirely dependent on the person you're
paired with; my partner is great! I've been driving most of the time, but that's more to
do with having a greater familiarity with the tools we're using, so it's a bit faster that
way. That said, the times my partner has driven have gone equally well. Overall, quite a
good experience.

{% include h3.html title=page.part2 %}
Our project needs to get below 1.00 RMSE, but we're sitting at an annoying *exact* 1.00. I
have a few ideas to try next time we get together to work on this, and I've seen a bunch
of Piazza posts with some tips, so I'm confident we'll working it out before the due date.

{% include h3.html title=page.part3 %}
Honestly, I'm not sure. Our test isn't for two weeks, and there's no project due for four.
Studying for the test won't take two weeks---I'd expect more like two days---so probably
just killing time and learning more about Python semantics. I'll be missing Monday's class
to contest a bogus parking ticket, but I won't miss much other than the daily quiz
probably, which is fine, all things considered.

{% include h3.html title=page.part4 %}
We've spent a bunch of time on Python semantics this past week; in particular the
differences in behavior between mutable and immutable structures. It's interesting to see
small things that Python does that other languages don't, and vice versa, but not
particularly engaging. I don't mind a lower-impact class to finish off my last semester,
though!

{% include h3.html title=page.part5 %}
In my opinion, the most important contributor to career success as a CS student is getting
internships. To land the internships, every tech company holds technical interviews.
Preparing for these interviews can be tough and certainly time-consuming. The best
practice I've found at UT is the Competitive Programming class, CS104c, and the
twice-monthly ACM programming competitions. The problems are written by students---soon to
include yours truly---who have gotten internships, been through many technical interviews,
and have substantial programming competition experience. There's prizes for the top three
finishers, and they're a whole lot of fun! The next one will be on February 24 at 5:30PM
in GDC 1.304---the same room we have class in---, and they'll be every other week
thereafter for the whole semester. Come check them out!
