---
week: 1
title: Getting Started
---
tl;dr: First impressions: this course seems pretty good! Everything’s go well so far, but
it’s also too early to tell if that will continue to be the case. Looking forward to
getting into some meaty projects. I expect the experience gained in this course to prove
very useful in the real world!

{% include h3.html title=page.part1 %}
This first week was dedicated to setup tasks. We hit an introduction to Python syntax,
some of the tools we'll be using, and the general format of the class. I got our textbooks
and set up my personal website to host this blog. Outside of class, I got settled back
into my apartment and got the ball rolling again on some of my side projects.

{% include h3.html title=page.part2 %}
Nothing has yet caused me any problems. I got Docker spun up without any issues, I already
had a GitHub education account, and my website is working. I don't expect to have any
major problems for a little while. I'm already quite familiar with git and have worked in
Agile workflows in the past. This *is* my first time using Docker, but it's gone well so
far and there's ample documentation online.

{% include h3.html title=page.part3 %}
Next week, we'll be getting started on that first project. I'm excited to get settled into
the general workflow for the class: I enjoy TDD. Python is not my first language of
choice, but it also isn't anywhere near my last, so I'll be fine. If time permits, I'll
improve some formatting on my webpage and update older material.

{% include h3.html title=page.part4 %}
During class, I've been taking notes not just on content but also on impressions. I've
found this to actually improve my focus, so I wish I'd happened to have tried it sooner
than my final semester. The first thing I noticed is the very strict attendance policy.
There are daily quizzes in the first five minutes of each class; these comprise 15% of our
final grade. Some number of these quiz scores will be dropped. Professor Downing uses the
drops as the excuse to make no provisions for lateness or absence. I understand the desire
for everyone to come to class, but it still seems harsh at first light. In time, perhaps
there will be plentiful enough drops that it proves to be a non-issue; time will tell.

Moving on, my impressions of Professor Downing as a person and teacher have been good. His
website is very well put-together, which is more rare than you might think in the CS
department. His course materials are all available on GitHub, which is awesome. He has a
very interesting conversational style of lecture: he'll select one person at a time to...
talk to. He'll have them walk through a selection of code, or describe its effects, or ask
questions. This approach seems to keep discussion moving faster than addressing the whole
class.

{% include h3.html title=page.part5 %}
I've seen on Piazza that many students are using GitHub Pages (which works great—it's what
I use!) at .github.io domains. I want to talk this week about setting up your own domain,
and some related tools I use.

Let me point out that GitHub does *not* support HTTPS for GitHub Pages sites served from a
custom domain. A cursory inspection indicates that Git*Lab* Pages do support custom-domain
HTTPS. If that looks like it'll work, I'll switch over and post about that later.

GitHub themselves have a [great
resource](https://help.github.com/articles/quick-start-setting-up-a-custom-domain/) about
their specific platform, so I won't go into that in detail. To set up the custom domain
itself, I use a few things:

* [Namecheap](https://www.namecheap.com/) is the best domain purchasing site I've yet
  found. Consistently cheaper than most alternatives, and not at all hard to use.
* Their DNS, however, I have found sub-par. Instead, my DNS is hosted with
  [Cloudflare](https://www.cloudflare.com/).
* I use [Fastmail](https://www.fastmail.com), a paid service, to host my personal mail.
  Their web interface is super-fast—a hell of a lot faster than Google's new(ish)
  Inbox—and supports keyboard shortcuts, an absolute must for me. They have a solid [setup
  guide](https://www.fastmail.com/help/receive/domains.html?u=51704158) and very helpful
  customer support.

These tools are applicable to use with any reasonable blog hosting service, but ones that
*aren't* GitHub Pages might charge you money to do so, whereas GitHub Pages is free. Feel
free to ping me at [contact@rperce.net](mailto:contact@rperce.net) if you've got any questions about my setup!

